Problem Definition: How well is the problem defined and understood? Do you have a clear, actionable problem to solve or not?

Domain Definition: A suitable technology or method for solving a problem is known, or not. For Basic research, the correct problem to be investigating is still unclear and so is also the method for doing it. For Disruptive Innovation, the new technology exists but the problem it is solving is not yet apparent.

Basic Research: Exploration, the discovery of something completely new, often performed by universities, academic institutions and research centres and is often funded by governments. Predictably this is the highest risk innovation strategy and is unlikely to provide actionable results that will lead to commercial success for the funding company. However many firms support and invest in basic research despite these market realities because they believe it helps them attract the best talent and gives them many ‘soft’ non-financial benefits. Examples might include, Cancer research, Maths, Engineering and Physics PhDs. The Bloodhound Supersonic Car might be another example of a project that has no real tangible goal (go as fast as possible) and its completely new technology.

Breakthrough: Bold, dramatic bets on the future. Solving a known problem, but one currently very hard to solve because the technology is not yet developed to do the job. The government / military are keen on breakthrough innovations and often issue grand challenges to engineers around the world to try and solve (DARPA’s self-driving car challenge helped kick-start the autonomous car industry). Putting a man on the moon, or Google’s internet transmitting balloons might be good examples.

Incremental: Since both the domain and the problem are known, this is the lowest risk strategy to follow and should be the majority of a company’s development effort (perhaps as much as 70%). The often gradual advancement of an existing product or service. Examples are plentiful, the yearly release of new phones, the development of televisions or cars once a dominant design has been established.

Radical: Typically described as a step change in capability, beyond usual incremental development.  Radical  is  technology  (or  supply)  push,  whereby  a  new technology has not yet found its clear need. Examples could be the very early days of televisions, computers or cars. Flying cars would be a current example where lots of companies are trying different ways of making it work, but no one design has yet come to define a flying car. Like televisions, it’s a chicken or the egg scenario, no one has a TV because there isn’t yet the infrastructure to make TV shows. No one knows what they would watch it for (since there is nothing to watch etc...). The technology has been created before the user knows why they need it.However! Once a dominant design (Model T Ford for example) takes hold in radical innovations, and the market starts growing as more and more users start to realise the benefits, it becomes an incremental innovation.  The  exact  turning  point  is  unclear,  but  an  important realisation. 

Sustaining Innovation is the other side of the Disruptive approach. Any innovation activity (Radical, Incremental, or Breakthrough) that pursues an increase in profitability, a climbing of the customer value curve, improving performance for existing customer markets is deemed to be sustaining.