# 18. Explain citizen participation in firm-led product development, and how it compares with community based product development. [6]

DESIGN FOR EVERYONE 

bespoke production > mass production > mass customisation > personalised production

mass production    mass customisation    personalised production    peer production
buy                choose                design                     design
                   buy                   choose                     make
                                         buy

dedicated mfg      reconfigurable mfg    on-demand mfg              on-demand mfg

facilitating factors
- increased access to manufacturing systems i.e. 3d printer, school laser cutter
- free 3d cad software e.g. freecad, fusion360
- social media for design and fabrication e.g. thingiverse, grabcad, turbosquid
- improved knowledge sharing e.g. youtube, skillshare, brilliant.org, forums
- maker culture


CITIZEN PARTICIPATION IN FIRM LED DEVELOPMENT

closed innovation to open innovation
traditional funnel model >> open innovation funnel (external inflow and external outflow)

crowdsourcing
    part of the design process originally undertaken by employees, being outsourced to
    a large number of individuals
    e.g. quirky, openIDEO


COMMUNITY BASED PRODUCT DEVELOPMENT

open source hardware
    e.g. reprap, open source ecology, aleph object lulzbot

the four freedoms:
    freedom to study
    freedom to make
    freedom to modify
    freedom to redistribute

open source hardware vs open source development


                                                  process openess
                                |    -closed design-              -open design-
   product     -closed source-  |      conventional               crowdsourcing
  openness                      | 
(hardware)      -open source-   |   downloadable design            open source

open source e.g.
    linux

process never stops

skills of design engineer transitioning to a moderator / facilitator
                                             searcher / reuser


EXAMPLE ANSWER

Originally, product development was limited to one-off bespoke production (i.e. tailor made shoes)
However, at the turn of the century mass manufacturing became mainstream (model T). Limited customisation (if any) was available
100 years later, we move more and more towards customisation of products (Mercedes A class)
The future trend is reducing volume of manufacture, at an even more customisable level

Original: Buy, dedicated mfg
Then: Choose, Buy, configurable mfg
Then: Design, Choose, Buy, on demand mfg
Future: Design, Make, on demand mfg

Much greater citizen involvement in the design process. This is in part due to maker culture, availability of tutorials (youtube, forums, skillshare), maker social networks (hackster.io), collaborative platofrms (github), available CAD (freecad, fusion) and available manufacturing (3dp, laser cutters)

Citizen / firm led product design is a form of open source, where the design process is open. An example is crowdsourcing - where the traditional job for a designer is outsourced to a large number of individuals who may not be users of the product. They may complete design tasks for monetary value or a sense of connection and accomplishment.

In this case, the designers role has shifted from a designer to a manager / organiser of various designs. They may employ 'google engineering', where partial solutions are found through research. 

Furthermore, full open source hardware is also becoming commonplace; e.g. open source ecology, where the designs are available to download by anyone (see four freedoms). Full open source examples include Linux, where no one coorporation has control, and it is built of contributions of tens of thousands of individuals, and many companies.